Business process flows aren't the exclusive workflow automation option
available to an entity in Common Data Service. In fact, a single
business process flow can run against up to five entities in Common Data
Service. Dynamics workflows are also supported as part of a business
process flow. This topic is beyond the scope of this learning path, but
if you are interested in this topic, you can learn more about Dynamics 
workflows selecting the related link in the summary unit of this module. 

A third workflow automation called instant flows in Power Automate, offer 
a powerful capability that can supplement business process flows. We'll 
explore this option in this module.

Microsoft Power Automate offers instant workflows that can run (trigger) 
automatically based upon a schedule, time, data value, or if a
record is added, selected, or modified. These workflows can work in
conjunction with a business process flow to gather approvals, copy data
from Common Data Service to another data source, or trigger an email
notification to specific users to alert them something has changed and
needs their attention. You can make instant flows that automatically
trigger based upon a record created, deleted, or modified, or you can
make them run (trigger) by a user clicking a button within a step in a Stage.

Instant flows are made with Power Automate and they start with a single
trigger followed by a series of actions. An example of an instant flow
that sends an approval request to a user when a record in an entity in
Common Data Service is modified is shown below. We'll create an
instant workflow in Power Automate and add it to our business process
Solution in the exercises within this module.

![Complex instant flow](../media/4-complex-instant-flow.png)

In summary, business process flows work within the Power Platform and 
there are many options including instant flows and approval flows that 
can run in concert with a business process flow. 

Business Process flows don't exclude the possibility of adding
additional capabilities to the envisioned solution by leveraging
additional components of the Power Platform like Power Apps, Power
Automate instant flows, or Power BI Dashboards. You can read more about
instant flows by selecting the related links in the summary unit within 
this module.
