Power Apps portals give internal and external users secure access to your data
either anonymously or through commercial authentication providers like LinkedIn,
Microsoft, Facebook, and Google, or enterprise providers such as Azure AD B2C
and Okta. Portals also allow you to set authentication requirements, customize
data for each user, and allow users to submit their information privately with
straightforward admin controls.

**Modern audience**

Portal capabilities empower online consumers who prefer to find answers on their
own through self-service and community options. By using Power Apps portals, you
can provide them with a branded, personalized, self-service experience. Portals
help you provide an organized, searchable knowledge base to deliver consistent,
up-to-date answers and community experience for peer-to-peer support and direct
interaction with your subject matter experts. Additionally, portals provide
simple navigation with seamless transitions between self and assisted support.

Out-of-the-box mobile optimizations for portal and knowledge articles ensure
that customers can get the help that they need, any time and from any device.

-   The majority of global consumers now expect brands and organizations to
    offer a self-service portal.

-   Nearly one-third of consumers keep in touch with brands they've done
    business with to make sure that they are getting the most out of their
    purchase.

-   Half of the consumers are using multiple channels to stay connected,
    including web, mobile, telephone, social, and self-service channels. Often,
    consumers use many channels for a single support experience.

Providing a web portal interface takes advantage of these user trends and brings
any type of engagement, including partner, group, and employee scenarios, that
directly accesses Common Data Service to create a modern connected experience
for external users and internal business operations.

**Modern business**

Consider a scenario where your business is already using Power Apps. The
following are additional capabilities that Power Apps portals can deliver:

-   **Provide self-service support** - When your business is growing, rather
    than having to employ extra staff in call centers, you could use Power Apps
    portals to add self-service capabilities to your website so that your
    customers can search knowledge articles, engage with other customers, find
    answers, and create support cases when needed (that go directly into
    Dynamics 365 Customer Service), all without a single interaction from your
    resources.

-   **Build a sales pipeline** - When a lead fills out a **Contact Us** form on
    your company website, this information is recorded in Dynamics 365 Sales
    where the record can become part of your sales pipeline automatically.

-   **Empower employees** - When an employee needs a new computer, they can fill
    out an online form, where the information will be recorded in Common Data
    Service so the helpdesk staff can immediately access and process this
    information.

-   **Engage mobile workforce** - Empower agents on any device, wherever they
    work. Field technicians can process and complete work orders in the field,
    instantly updating Dynamics 365 Field Service.

**Power Apps portals capabilities**

Power Apps portals are built on top of Common Data Service. This architecture
comes with a major benefit. All the differentiating features of model-driven
Power Apps are the features of Power Apps portals as well, including:

-   Centralized management

-   Common Data Model

-   Roles and permissions

-   Forms and views

-   Business rules

-   Declarative workflows and actions

-   Plug-in architecture

-   Integration with other services

-   Common Data Service extensibility

-   Audit

Power Apps portals deliver a complete content management system out of the box,
with all content stored in Common Data Service. As a result, content can be
edited through the Portals Studio and also directly by using the Portal
Management app. Additionally, the robust Common Data Service security model can
help secure the content.