In this unit, you'll learn how to create a model in AI Builder.

### Select a model type

Sign into Power Apps or Power Automate and select AI Builder \> Build in
the left-side menu.

There are two classes of model:

1.  Models that require customization before they can be used

2.  Models that are prebuilt and can be used right away

Prebuilt models have already been created for you and can be used right
away in your apps and flows. No prior work is needed to create the
model.

Let's explore what you can do with the models you can customize.

Select the tile for one of the following model types:

-   Form Processing

-   Object Detection

-   Prediction

-   Text Classification

Make sure you have everything you need to create your model, as listed
in the Get started pivot. You can also use [sample
data](https://docs.microsoft.com/ai-builder/samples) to create any
of these models.

Enter a name for your model where it says Name this AI model.

Select Create.

### Follow the guided experience

To help create your model, we have a guided experience that will walk
you through each step of the experience.

Every model type has its own set of steps to create a model. You can
find these steps outlined along the left column to help guide you
through the model creation process. As you progress from step to step,
the left column will be updated to reflect your progress.

At any time during the creation process, you can save your work and come
back later. Just click Save and close in the top right corner, next to
the name of your model. Progress is also saved automatically when you
navigate between steps.

Along the right column, there's a list of Quick tips to help you
understand some of the concepts and actions that you need to take in the
current step. If you ever need more help, click the Get help link on the
Get help or send feedback tip card. There, you can report an issue, send
feedback, and find documentation.

Follow the instructions on each page to advance to the next step. If you
are prevented from advancing, there are still actions to be taken on the
page.

The final step is a summary of the customizations you made in the
previous steps. Review this information to be sure that every detail is
configured as intended, then begin training your model. Training may
take a while depending on the size of your data.

Once the training completes, your model is ready to be tested.

### What's next?

In this next unit, we'll learn how you can use your model in Power Apps
and Power Automate.
